**Overview:**
With the help of the `Internet Message Access Protocol` (`IMAP`), access to emails from a mail server is possible. Unlike the `Post Office Protocol` (`POP3`), IMAP allows online management of emails directly on the server and supports folder structures. Thus, it is a network protocol for the online management of emails on a remote server. The protocol is client-server-based and allows synchronization of a local email client with the mailbox on the server, providing a kind of network file system for emails, allowing problem-free synchronization across several independent clients.
IMAP is text-based and has extended functions, such as browsing emails directly on the server. It is also possible for several users to access the email server simultaneously

The client establishes the connection to the server via port `143`. 

SMTP is usually used to send emails. By copying sent emails into an IMAP folder, all clients have access to all sent mails, regardless of the computer from which they were sent. 

Without further measures, IMAP works unencrypted and transmits commands, emails, or usernames and passwords in plain text. Many email servers require establishing an encrypted IMAP session to ensure greater security in email traffic and prevent unauthorized access to mailboxes. SSL/TLS is usually used for this purpose. Depending on the method and implementation used, the encrypted connection uses the standard port `143` or an alternative port such as `993`.

---
## Dangerous settings
|   |   |
|---|---|
|`auth_debug`|Enables all authentication debug logging.|
|`auth_debug_passwords`|This setting adjusts log verbosity, the submitted passwords, and the scheme gets logged.|
|`auth_verbose`|Logs unsuccessful authentication attempts and their reasons.|
|`auth_verbose_passwords`|Passwords used for authentication are logged and can also be truncated.|
|`auth_anonymous_username`|This specifies the username to be used when logging in with the ANONYMOUS SASL mechanism.|
