**Overview:**
`Network File System` (`NFS`) is a network file system has the same purpose as SMB. Its purpose is to access file systems over a network as if they were local. However, it uses an entirely different protocol. [NFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) is used between Linux and Unix systems. This means that NFS clients cannot communicate directly with SMB servers.

NFS is based on the [Open Network Computing Remote Procedure Call](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_RPC) (`ONC-RPC`/`SUN-RPC`) protocol exposed on `TCP` and `UDP` ports `111`, which uses [External Data Representation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/External_Data_Representation) (`XDR`) for the system-independent exchange of data. The NFS protocol has `no` mechanism for `authentication` or `authorization`. Instead, authentication is completely shifted to the RPC protocol's options.

When footprinting NFS, the TCP ports `111` and `2049` are essential. We can also get information about the NFS service and the host via RPC
We can also use NFS for further escalation. For example, if we have access to the system via SSH and want to read files from another folder that a specific user can read, we would need to upload a shell to the NFS share that has the `SUID` of that user and then run the shell via the SSH user.

----
## Dangerous settings
|   |   |
|---|---|
|`rw`|Read and write permissions.|
|`insecure`|Ports above 1024 will be used.|
|`nohide`|If another file system was mounted below an exported directory, this directory is exported by its own exports entry.|
|`no_root_squash`|All files created by root are kept with the UID/GID 0.|

---

## Enumeration

```
sudo nmap --script nfs* 10.129.14.128 -sV -p111,2049
```
Nmap has some NSE scripts that can be used for the scans. These can then show us, for example, the `contents` of the share and its `stats`


```
showmount -e 10.129.14.128
```
show the available nfs shares

```
mkdir target-NFS
poi1111@htb[/htb]$ sudo mount -t nfs 10.129.14.128:/ ./target-NFS/ -o nolock
```
mount the share.
It is important to note that if the `root_squash` option is set, we cannot edit the files even as `root`.

```
sudo umount ./target-NFS
```
unmount the shre