**Overview:**
`Network File System` (`NFS`) is a network file system has the same purpose as SMB. Its purpose is to access file systems over a network as if they were local. However, it uses an entirely different protocol. [NFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) is used between Linux and Unix systems. This means that NFS clients cannot communicate directly with SMB servers.

NFS is based on the [Open Network Computing Remote Procedure Call](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_RPC) (`ONC-RPC`/`SUN-RPC`) protocol exposed on `TCP` and `UDP` ports `111`, which uses [External Data Representation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/External_Data_Representation) (`XDR`) for the system-independent exchange of data. The NFS protocol has `no` mechanism for `authentication` or `authorization`. Instead, authentication is completely shifted to the RPC protocol's options. The authorization is derived from the available file system information. In this process, the server is responsible for translating the client's user information into the file system's format and converting the corresponding authorization details into the required UNIX syntax as accurately as possible.

The most common authentication is via UNIX `UID`/`GID` and `group memberships`, which is why this syntax is most likely to be applied to the NFS protocol. One problem is that the client and server do not necessarily have to have the same mappings of UID/GID to users and groups, and the server does not need to do anything further. No further checks can be made on the part of the server. This is why NFS should only be used with this authentication method in trusted networks.
