**Overview:**
The `Simple Mail Transfer Protocol` (`SMTP`) is a protocol for sending emails in an IP network. It can be used between an email client and an outgoing mail server or between two SMTP servers. SMTP is often combined with the IMAP or POP3 protocols, which can fetch emails and send emails. In principle, it is a client-server-based protocol, although SMTP can be used between a client and a server and between two SMTP servers.
By default, SMTP servers accept connection requests on port `25`. However, newer SMTP servers also use other ports such as TCP port `587`. This port is used to receive mail from authenticated users/servers, usually using the STARTTLS command to switch the existing plaintext connection to an encrypted connection. 

SMTP works unencrypted without further measures and transmits all commands, data, or authentication information in plain text. To prevent unauthorized reading of data, the SMTP is used in conjunction with SSL/TLS encryption. Under certain circumstances, a server uses a port other than the standard TCP port `25` for the encrypted connection, for example, TCP port `465`.

An essential function of an SMTP server is preventing spam using authentication mechanisms that allow only authorized users to send e-mails. For this purpose, most modern SMTP servers support the protocol extension ESMTP with SMTP-Auth. After sending his e-mail, the SMTP client, also known as `Mail User Agent` (`MUA`), converts it into a header and a body and uploads both to the SMTP server. This has a so-called `Mail Transfer Agent` (`MTA`), the software basis for sending and receiving e-mails. The MTA checks the e-mail for size and spam and then stores it. To relieve the MTA, it is occasionally preceded by a `Mail Submission Agent` (`MSA`), which checks the validity, i.e., the origin of the e-mail. This `MSA` is also called `Relay` server. These are very important later on, as the so-called `Open Relay Attack` can be carried out on many SMTP servers due to incorrect configuration. We will discuss this attack and how to identify the weak point for it a little later. The MTA then searches the DNS for the IP address of the recipient mail server.

On arrival at the destination SMTP server, the data packets are reassembled to form a complete e-mail. From there, the `Mail delivery agent` (`MDA`) transfers it to the recipient's mailbox.

|Client (`MUA`)|`筐杼|Submission Agent (`MSA`)|`筐杼|Open Relay (`MTA`)|`筐杼|Mail Delivery Agent (`MDA`)|`筐杼|Mailbox (`POP3`/`IMAP`)|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|

But SMTP has two disadvantages inherent to the network protocol.

1. The first is that sending an email using SMTP does not return a usable delivery confirmation. Although the specifications of the protocol provide for this type of notification, its formatting is not specified by default, so that usually only an English-language error message, including the header of the undelivered message, is returned.
2. Users are not authenticated when a connection is established, and the sender of an email is therefore unreliable. As a result, open SMTP relays are often misused to send spam en masse. The originators use arbitrary fake sender addresses for this purpose to not be traced (mail spoofing). Today, many different security techniques are used to prevent the misuse of SMTP servers. For example, suspicious emails are rejected or moved to quarantine (spam folder). For example, responsible for this are the identification protocol [DomainKeys](http://dkim.org/) (`DKIM`), the [Sender Policy Framework](https://dmarcian.com/what-is-spf/) (`SPF`).

For this purpose, an extension for SMTP has been developed called `Extended SMTP` (`ESMTP`). When people talk about SMTP in general, they usually mean ESMTP. ESMTP uses TLS, which is done after the `EHLO` command by sending `STARTTLS`. This initializes the SSL-protected SMTP connection, and from this moment on, the entire connection is encrypted, and therefore more or less secure. Now [AUTH PLAIN](https://www.samlogic.net/articles/smtp-commands-reference-auth.htm) extension for authentication can also be used safely.