**Overview:**
`Simple Network Management Protocol` ([SNMP](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1157)) was created to monitor network devices. In addition, this protocol can also be used to handle configuration tasks and change settings remotely. SNMP-enabled hardware includes routers, switches, servers, IoT devices, and many other devices that can also be queried and controlled using this standard protocol. Thus, it is a protocol for monitoring and managing network devices. I

In addition to the pure exchange of information, SNMP also transmits control commands using agents over UDP port `161`. The client can set specific values in the device and change options and settings with these commands. While in classical communication, it is always the client who actively requests information from the server, SNMP also enables the use of so-called `traps` over UDP port `162`. These are data packets sent from the SNMP server to the client without being explicitly requested. If a device is configured accordingly, an SNMP trap is sent to the client once a specific event occurs on the server-side.

To ensure that SNMP access works across manufacturers and with different client-server combinations, the `Management Information Base` (`MIB`) was created. MIB is an independent format for storing device information. A MIB is a text file in which all queryable SNMP objects of a device are listed in a standardized tree hierarchy.

An OID represents a node in a hierarchical namespace. A sequence of numbers uniquely identifies each node, allowing the node's position in the tree to be determined. 

Community strings can be seen as passwords that are used to determine whether the requested information can be viewed or not. It is important to note that many organizations are still using `SNMPv2`, as the transition to `SNMPv3` can be very complex, but the services still need to remain active. This causes many administrators a great deal of concern and creates some problems they are keen to avoid. The lack of knowledge about how the information can be obtained and how we as attackers use it makes the administrators' approach seem inexplicable. At the same time, the lack of encryption of the data sent is also a problem. Because every time the community strings are sent over the network, they can be intercepted and read.

---
## Dangerous settings

	|**Settings**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`rwuser noauth`|Provides access to the full OID tree without authentication.|
|`rwcommunity <community string> <IPv4 address>`|Provides access to the full OID tree regardless of where the requests were sent from.|
|`rwcommunity6 <community string> <IPv6 address>`|Same access as with `rwcommunity` with the difference of using IPv6.|

## SNMP Enumeration
`snmpwalk -v2c -c <community string> <FQDN/IP>`
